in this video we'll paint the parts for
an HD imagination dollhouse the first
step in any dollhouse painting project
is to make a painting plan the
imagination house paint colors page has
suggested colors which you can print out
or you can print a blank diagram and go
to your Home Depot paint department to
choose your own colors from their
selection the first coat of paint is all
about what soaks into the wood all wood
has grain and fibers that will be
surrounded and reinforced by the paint
so when you do the sanding after the
first coat fibers that stick up will be
clipped off by the sandpaper sanding
before the first coat pushes those
fibers around but it doesn't clip them
off cleanly so it doesn't help in making
a smooth final and finish putting on an
extra heavy first coat or putting on
more than one coat before sanding will
leave paint on top of the fibers so
you'll be sanding the paint instead of
the wood and paint is incredibly tough
and resists the sandpaper your best
Avenue to a smooth surface is to put on
one moderate coat and to expect a lot of
it to soak in then sand it down to the
wood
all of the parts of the dollhouse should
be first coated with the colors you've
chosen now priming isn't necessary as
paint adhesion isn't an issue for the
first coat on a dollhouse and it just
adds steps when you paint the railings
make sure you get paint on all the
surfaces the railing screws will need an
artist's brush to reach all the way into
the nooks and crannies I use a 3/16 flat
brush for most of the small spaces on a
dollhouse once everything has paint on
it smooth it out and mop up the excess
painting the windows is again a matter
of getting paint everywhere and then
smoothing it out
you
disassemble the doors for painting by
pulling out the pins but don't lose them
now you can paint the door and the door
frame without them sticking together
the porch fascia on the imagination
dollhouse turns into a left and right
set when you paint the outside I usually
first coat the inside the house body
color so that I can sand it and second
coat it after assembly then the paint
won't interfere with the glue paint the
trim and left and right sets to one
surface both edges and leave the inside
bare wood a three inch foam roller as
ideal for the smooth inside surfaces it
isn't absolutely necessary to do inside
painting before assembly but sanding the
parts is easy when they're flat on the
table and harder after assembly so if
you're going to paint anywhere on the
inside or if you haven't decided yet
first coat and sand the inside before
assembly
and as on the outside first coat with
enough paint for full coverage but don't
go back and redo spots where the paint
is soaking in do go back to clean up
excess and drips avoid drips on the
edges - those will have to be scraped
off later but you can minimize them by
being careful now the roller in
conjunction with a foam brush will get
all the inside corners keep the paint
leaned on the roller when you paint
along the grooves and keep the roller
travel in line with the groove to
minimize paint getting into the groove
any paint in the groove will have to be
cleaned out later so a bit of care now
can prevent more work later on the parts
diagram and the instructions show the
mid floor from the top make sure you
turn it over for painting the ceiling
paint the inside of the front and rear
roofs the first coat can be full
coverage without worrying about where
the glue joint will be because you will
sand it until some of the wood is
showing through then you'll have wood
for the glue to grab when the house is
assembled
you
even the dividers can be first coated
and sanded whether you paint or
wallpaper the sanded interior will make
your work easier
you
that's it put away your tools and let
the paint dry then you'll be ready for
sanding